OpenShift reference article regarding proxy environment variables (#506)
UKCloud/documentation: articles/openshift/oshift-ref-no-proxy.md

### Intended audience

To follow the steps in this article you must have access to a cluster that is running OpenShift Container Platform v3.11 (or newer) with connectivity to government community networks (such as HSCN, PSN or Janet). Within this cluster configuration we deploy Squid proxy to enable non-internet connected nodes to request internet resources and data in a restricted manner.

## Squid

Squid proxy enables containers running on worker nodes (with government community network access) to request resources from the internet. Our default configuration only permits access to specific endpoints to ensure compliance with network regulatory requirements. You can find more information regarding these endpoints in [*How to permit outbound access to internet hosts in deployments with government community network connectivity*](oshift-how-add-domains-proxy-whitelist.md).

## Purpose of no_proxy

> `no_proxy` is an environment variable used in conjunction with `http_proxy` and `https_proxy`. If an HTTP(S) connection attempt is destined for an address or hostname listed in `no_proxy`, the traffic will not be requested via the proxy and will instead use the routes on the current node, ensuring connectivity is not lost with alternate community or private networks.

Reviewer: I think you probably mean alternative, rather than alternate

## Viewing proxy environment variables

To view the required proxy environment variables for your OpenShift cluster, you can refer to the environment values set for the `docker-registry` Deployment Config in the `default` project with a breakdown of these variables following: 

```
$ oc describe dc docker-registry -n default | grep PROXY
      NO_PROXY:							.cluster.local,.svc,10.2.1.13,10.2.1.19,10.2.1.5,169.254.169.254,172.30.0.1,console.local-domain,cor00005.cni.ukcloud.com,frn00006.cni.ukcloud.com,master-infra-0.local-domain,master-infra-1.local-domain,master-infra-2.local-domain,worker-infra-0.local-domain,worker-infra-1.local-domain,worker-tenant-s-0.local-domain,worker-tenant-s-1.local-domain
      HTTP_PROXY:						http://10.2.1.10:3128
      HTTPS_PROXY:						http://10.2.1.10:3128
```

- `NO_PROXY`: String containing hosts/addresses to be accessed without traversing the proxy

- `HTTP_PROXY`: Cluster Proxy URL for HTTP requests

- `HTTPS_PROXY`: Cluster Proxy URL for HTTPS requests

> When building containers within OpenShift, these environment variables will be passed through to the image pushed to your local registry. When working with images that have been imported from an external source, you may need to apply these environment values to ensure that you can access whitelisted internet resources from your community network nodes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When building container images within OpenShift, these environment variables will be passed through to the image pushed to your local registry. When working with images that have been imported from an external source, you may need to apply these environment values to ensure that you can access whitelisted internet resources from your community network nodes.
```

Typically you can identify where the proxy is denying requests by looking for keywords such as `forbidden` or when receiving HTTP 403 status code responses. Below you can see an example where an HTTPS request to `registry.exampleurl.com` has been blocked by the proxy.

```
$ oc new-app centos/ruby-25-centos7~https://github.com/sclorg/ruby-ex.git
W0412 13:52:16.288545   50288 dockerimagelookup.go:233] Docker registry lookup failed: Get https://registry.exampleurl.com: Forbidden
error: unable to locate any images in image streams, local docker images with name "centos/ruby-25-centos7"
```

In the example above this is an internet URL so it would be best to add this specific domain (or all subdomains using `.exampleurl.com`) to the `proxy-whitelist` configmap in the `whitelist` project, as documented in [*How to permit outbound access to internet hosts in deployments with government community network connectivity*](oshift-how-add-domains-proxy-whitelist.md). If this URL was accessible on another network other than the internet, this would be a good candidate to be added to `no_proxy` to ensure the proxy was bypassed.

## Adding entries to no_proxy

> Entries can be added to `no_proxy` pre-deployment if included in the Service Request requesting the environment. Otherwise if you identify additional endpoints that you would like to bypass the proxy post-deployment, you will need to raise a Support Request via the UKCloud Portal as a restart of the master-services is required.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Entries can be added to `no_proxy` pre-deployment if included in the Service Request requesting the environment. Otherwise if you identify additional endpoints that you would like to bypass the proxy post-deployment, you will need to raise a Support Request via the UKCloud Portal and arrange a suitable maintenance window as a restart of the master, node and docker services are required.
```
